Name: Spencer Tower
CSE 140
Homework 2

For each problem that requires a written answer, write (or copy-and-paste)
your answers in this file.  When you are done, you should have replaced all
the ellipses (the three dots) with your answers.

At the end, you will turn in this file along with your modified
dna_analysis.py program.


Problem 1:

(No answers in this file.)

Problem 2:

GC-content: 0.3

Problem 3:

I recieved the following output: Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "dna_analysis.py", line 38, in <module>
    linenum = linenum + 1
NameError: name 'linenum' is not defined

This error was triggered because the program could not run the for loop 
that requires the variable 'lineum' to have a set value.  The loop had 
nowhere to begin because it is dependent upon lineum's initial value
in order to begin the loop and keep track of the current line.  The loop 
also requires an initial value for 'seq' in order to begin keeping
track of the nucleotides in the file that have already been read.

If 'gc_count = 0' is commented out, the loop 'for bp in seq:' cannot keep
track of the number of G and C nucleotides because the variable gc_count
has not yet been defined and therefore cannot be used or incremented.  


Problem 4:

AT-content: 0.7

Problem 5:

A-content: 0.5
T-content: 0.2
G-content: 0.1
C-content: 0.2

Problem 6:

For all files the outputs for the sequence length and
total_count came back the same.  The only one out of the three that 
differed for each file was the sum count for the A, T, G, C counts.

After looking at sample_5.fastq, I notice that there was a single 'N' within
the string of nucleotides that caused the sum count to differ.  The outputs
for sequence length and total_count came back as 75.  The sum count came 
back as 74.  

I think that this is because the sequence lenght and the total_count include
ALL characters on the nucleotide line, whereas the sum count only includes
A, T, G, and C in its count.

Therefore I think that the sum count is the only viable denominator for 
calculating the 

Problem 7:

AT/GC_ratio: 1.3223416174746196

Problem 8:

sample_1.fastq: GC Content Level: moderate GC content.

Collaboration:

I was in communication with Matt and Daniel via Slack throughout this 
homework assignment which was mostly helpful for the series.py homework.
I did this assignment mostly on my own.

Reflection:

I finally finished it.  I had quite a bit of trouble making sense of the 
directions at first.  After a while I put the assignment on the backburner
and finally revisited it.  I think after moving forward and learning a lot
more from other classwork, this assignment seemed much simpler upon revisiting.
My general lack of familiarity with programming and Python is what made it
difficult.  So being more familiar now has made it easier to come back 
and finish up.
